The GIMP-GAP distribution contains some libraries
as sourcecode for convenient static linking.

- ffmpeg CVS snapshot 2005.APR.08 (contains libavformat and libavcodec)
- libmpeg3-1.5.4

The gimp-gap project does NOT maintain the sourcecode for those libs !
Bugs related to those libraries are never fixed here.
Future releases of gimp-gap may include newer versions
of those libs.



---------------
ffmpeg
--------------

GIMP-GAP uses the libraries libavformat and libavcodec
that are part of ffmpeg. 
libavformat and libavcodec build up the basic videofile support for 
many MPEG based fileformats, both for read and write access 
(frame and audio extraction, and for the powerful video encoder plug-in
 "FFMPEG" in the Master Videoencoder dialog).
		    
You can get ffmpeg at:
    http://ffmpeg.sourceforge.net


GIMP-GAP was developed and tested with several ffmpeg versions.
The code still should compile and run with following versions:


 - ffmpeg 0.4.8        (outdated stable release) 
 - ffmpeg-0.4.9pre1    (latest official release)
 
 - CVS snapshots
   ffmpeg-CVS-2005.03.02
   ffmpeg-CVS-2005.04.08
   
   ffmpeg CVS snapshot versions with LIBAVCODEC_BUILD   >=  4744
   may or may not compile, link and run with this GIMP-GAP release.
   
   very new CVS snapshot version 
   from date 2005.08.04 (with LIBAVCODEC_BUILD = ((49<<16)+(0<<8)+1) )
   or newer definetly will not compile and work with this GIMP-GAP
   release.


It is recommanded to use the ffmpeg tarball that is included in
this GIMP-GAP distribution. 

  The ongoing ffmpeg development often introduces incompatible changes
  that would require changes and extension in the GIMP-GAP 
  modules to enable compile together with GIMP-GAP and much testing
  to check if the new ffmpeg version will work. 
  
  Therefore i decided to include an ffmpeg  CVS snaphot
  that was tested with GIMP-GAP during July/August 2005


GIMP-GAP can be configured to be compiled without ffmpeg (in this case 
with reduced functionality at video encoding and decoding)

    --disable_gva_libavformat

If you want to try other versions you can download the ffmpeg tarball
and move the extracted sourcecode directory to

   <GIMP-GAP-sourcedir>/extern_libs/ffmpeg


---------------
libmpeg3
--------------

GIMP-GAP uses the library libmpeg3 for decoding MPEG videos.
(frame and audio extraction).
With libmpeg3 access to VCD and DVD is supported. 
This includes read access to .vob and .ifo files.

GIMP-GAP was developed and tested with libmpeg3-1.5.4
The sourcecode of this libmpeg3 version is included in the GIMP-GAP
distribution as tarball.

You can get libmpeg3 at:
  http://www.heroinewarrior.com/download.php3


Note: the original has no installation support,
it is recommanded to use the libmpeg3 tarball that is included in
this GIMP-GAP distribution.


